# Proteomic_BrainDev
Spatiotemporal proteomic atlas of multiple brain regions across early fetal to neonatal stages in cynomolgus monkey.
This site provides the analysis codes to generate the figures reported in the published paper.

A high-resolution regional atlas of early brain development would help understand how neural functions emerge. Current omics data of neurodevelopment, however, mainly cover preimplantation and postnatal stages in humans. While fetal stages are critical periods for brain development, the molecular signature and dynamics of human protein expression remains unclear due to sampling difficulty and ethical limitations. Non-human primates present similar developmental and neuropathological features to humans. Here, we build a high-resolution spatiotemporal proteomic atlas that covers cynomolgus macaque brain development from early fetal to neonatal stages. Proteomic profiles of distinct brain regions revealed the dynamics of neurodevelopment. Proteomic dynamics in the cerebellum were particular distinct compared to cerebrum and these differences increased over development. Cortical and subcortical regions showed distinct protein dynamics with region-specific changes emerging at each stage. The stage of 120-day is a critical period for neurogenesis and axongenesis. Proteins encoded by neural disease-associated genes fluctuated before birth, indicating that neuropsychiatric risk might emerge at early fetal stages. Finally, our integrative analysis revealed a > 0.98 correlation between region-specific protein expression in macaques and humans, which was much higher than the correlation with mouse. Our study provides insight into fetal brain development in primates as well as providing a previously missing resource for the neuroscience research community.
